Revise the contents of the Java API guide (#1084)
scalar-labs/scalardb: docs/api-guide.md

# ScalarDB Java API Guide

> The ScalarDB Java API is mainly composed of the Administrative API and Transactional API. This guide briefly explains what kinds of APIs exist, how to use them, and related topics like handling exceptions.

Author: I'm OK with this change👍
(Either is OK grammatically.)

### Create a namespace

Before creating tables, namespaces must be created since a table belongs to one namespace.

You can create a namespace as follows:

```java
// Create the namespace "ns". If the namespace already exists, an exception will be thrown.
admin.createNamespace("ns");

// Create the namespace only if it does not already exist.
boolean ifNotExists = true;
admin.createNamespace("ns", ifNotExists);

// Create the namespace with options.
Map<String, String> options = ...;
admin.createNamespace("ns", options);
```

#### Creation options

> In the creation operations, like creating a namespace and creating a table, you can specify options that are maps of option names and values (`Map<String, String>`). By using the options, you can set storage adapter–specific configurations.

Author: Currently, we have options for Cassandra, Cosmos DB for NoSQL, and DynamoDB. Do we need to add options for JDBC databases?

Author: I see. Thank you! I've added a tab for JDBC databases that states no options are available.

| compaction-strategy  | Cassandra compaction strategy, Must be `LCS`, `STCS` or `TWCS`.                        | `STCS`           |
| replication-factor   | Cassandra replication factor.                                                          | 1                |

</div>
<div id="Cosmos_DB_for_NoSQL" class="tabcontent" markdown="1">

| Name       | Description                                         | Default |
|------------|-----------------------------------------------------|---------|
| ru         | Base resource unit.                                 | 400     |
| no-scaling | Disable auto-scaling for Cosmos DB for NoSQL.       | false   |

</div>
<div id="DynamoDB" class="tabcontent" markdown="1">

| Name       | Description                             | Default |
|------------|-----------------------------------------|---------|
| no-scaling | Disable auto-scaling for DynamoDB.      | false   |
| no-backup  | Disable continuous backup for DynamoDB. | false   |
| ru         | Base resource unit.                     | 10      |

</div>
</div>

### Create a table

> When creating a table, you should define the table metadata and then create the table.

Author: > IMO, table metadata is not a commonly-defined word, so it would be better to explain what table metadata is in ScalarDB here.

@choplin Good idea! How about we use the following definition?:

> **Note**
> 
> The following is an excerpt from the **Table metadata** section in the blog post [ScalarDB Admin API & Schema Loader](https://medium.com/scalar-engineering/scalardb-admin-api-schema-loader-b0ad3809d4ea).

```suggestion
When creating a table, you should define the table metadata and then create the table.

Table metadata is ScalarDB-specific internal metadata for managing the schema of the user’s table. ScalarDB checks if the targeted metadata for the table exists and verifies that the name, type, and function of each column match the content in the `scalardb.metadata` database.
```

> When creating a table, you should define the table metadata and then create the table.

Reviewer: Looks great! Thanks!

Select your database to see the options available:

<div id="tabset-1">
<div class="tab">
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openTab(event, 'Cassandra', 'tabset-1')" id="defaultOpen-1">Cassandra</button>
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openTab(event, 'Cosmos_DB_for_NoSQL', 'tabset-1')">Cosmos DB for NoSQL</button>
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openTab(event, 'DynamoDB', 'tabset-1')">DynamoDB</button>
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openTab(event, 'JDBC_databases', 'tabset-1')">JDBC databases</button>
</div>

<div id="Cassandra" class="tabcontent" markdown="1">

| Name                 | Description                                                                            | Default          |
|----------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|
| replication-strategy | Cassandra replication strategy. Must be `SimpleStrategy` or `NetworkTopologyStrategy`. | `SimpleStrategy` |
| compaction-strategy  | Cassandra compaction strategy, Must be `LCS`, `STCS` or `TWCS`.                        | `STCS`           |

> | replication-factor   | Cassandra replication factor.                                                          | 1                |

Author: Thank you for updating that!

When backporting to 3.X branches, I'll be sure to change `replication-factor` to `1`.

> | replication-factor   | Cassandra replication factor.                                                          | 1                |

Reviewer 2: It looks like the change @Torch3333 suggested is not applied. Can you please apply it?

> | replication-factor   | Cassandra replication factor.                                                          | 1                |

Author: Oops, thank you for catching that! I've applied this suggestion.

Map<String, String> options = ...;
admin.createIndex("ns", "tbl", "c5", options);
```

### Add a new column to a table

You can add a new, non-partition key column to a table as follows:

```java
// Add a new column "c6" with the INT data type to the table "ns.tbl".
admin.addNewColumnToTable("ns", "tbl", "c6", DataType.INT)
```

{% capture notice--info %}
**Note**

You should carefully consider adding a new column to a table because the execution time may vary greatly depending on the underlying storage. Please plan accordingly and consider the following, especially if the database runs in production:

- **For Cosmos DB for NoSQL and DynamoDB:** Adding a column is almost instantaneous as the table schema is not modified. Only the table metadata stored in a separate table is updated.
- **For Cassandra:** Adding a column will only update the schema metadata and will not modify the existing schema records. The cluster topology is the main factor for the execution time. Changes to the schema metadata are shared to each cluster node via a gossip protocol. Because of this, the larger the cluster, the longer it will take for all nodes to be updated.

> - **For relational databases (MySQL, Oracle, etc.):** Adding a column may take a very long time to execute. In addition, a table lock may occur.

Reviewer: This is not a direct comment on this PR, but is this the case if a newly added column is set to NULLable and defaults to NULL? I suppose underlying RDBMSs normally take not so long to add a NULL column.

Reviewer 2: I don't think adding a NULL column takes a long time.

@Torch3333 Do you have any comment ton this?

Reviewer 3: Not really; I don't know the answer to that.

Author: Thanks for bringing this up. 

Since it sounds like RDBMSs normally don't take long to add a NULL column, how about we change this sentence as follows?:

```suggestion
- **For relational databases (MySQL, Oracle, etc.):** Adding a column shouldn't take a long time to execute. 
```

Or, do we still need to mention `In addition, a table lock may occur`?

Reviewer 2: @josh-wong The same sentence is in the following:

https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/docs/revise-api-guide/docs/storage-abstraction.md#add-a-new-column-to-a-table
https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/docs/revise-api-guide/core/src/main/java/com/scalar/db/api/Admin.java#L392-L393

Can you please apply the same change to them?

Author: Sounds good. I'm currently editing `storage-abstraction.md`, so this change will be included when I submit the PR for that doc.

I've made the same changes in `Admin.java` in this PR, so PTAL!

You can drop a secondary index as follows:

```java

> // Drop the secondary index on column "c5" from table "ns.tbl". If a secondary index does not exist, an exception will be thrown.

Author: Ah, good catch! I've changed this to "the secondary index."

You can get the tables of a namespace as follows:

```java
// Get the tables of the namespace "ns".
Set<String> tables = admin.getNamespaceTableNames("ns");
```

### Get table metadata

You can get table metadata as follows:

```java
// Get the table metadata for "ns.tbl".
TableMetadata tableMetadata = admin.getTableMetadata("ns", "tbl");
```

> ### Specify operations for coordinator tables

Reviewer: I guess it would be helpful to explain what the coordinator table is here. Users would not know the coordinator table, and it could be hard for users to consider whether they should create a coordinator table or not.

Author: Good point🤔

I'm not exactly sure which transaction managers (other than [Consensus Commit](https://scalardb.scalar-labs.com/docs/latest/configurations/#basic-configurations)) need to have coordinator tables. Would the following be accurate? Or are there any other transaction managers we should include? (cc: @brfrn169)

> **Note**
> 
> The following is an excerpt from the "Overview of the Admin API" section in the blog post [ScalarDB Admin API & Schema Loader](https://medium.com/scalar-engineering/scalardb-admin-api-schema-loader-b0ad3809d4ea).

```suggestion
### Specify operations for coordinator tables

If you are using the Consensus Commit transaction manager, you must create coordinator tables to execute transactions. Coordinator tables are used by the [Transactional API](#transactional-api) to track the statuses of transactions.
```

Reviewer: I think so, but I'm not 100% sure. I would ask @brfrn169 to check this.

Author: As discussed with @brfrn169, all transaction managers need Coordinator tables. I've updated this sentence to reflect that. PTAL!

Depending on the transaction manager type that you are using, you might need to create coordinator tables to execute transactions. In addition to creating tables, you can truncate and drop coordinator tables.

> #### Create coordinator tables

Reviewer: I guess it should be capitalized because Coordinator is a kind of proper noun in ScalarDB. But, we should discuss it with @brfrn169 and @feeblefakie.

Author: Thank you for bringing this up!

After discussing this with @feeblefakie and @brfrn169, we agreed that Coordinator is a component in ScalarDB and should therefore be capitalized.

```

After you have executed all transactional operations, you should close the `DistributedTransactionManager` instance as follows:

```java
transactionManager.close();
```

### Begin or start a transaction

Before executing transactional CRUD operations, you need to begin or start a transaction.

You can begin a transaction as follows:

```java
// Begin a transaction.
DistributedTransaction transaction = transactionManager.begin();
```

Or, you can start a transaction as follows:

```java
// Start a transaction.
DistributedTransaction transaction = transactionManager.start();
```

Alternatively, you can use the `begin` method for a transaction by specifying a transaction ID as follows:

```java
// Begin a transaction with specifying a transaction ID.
DistributedTransaction transaction = transactionManager.begin("<TRANSACTION_ID>");
```

Or, you can use the `start` method for a transaction by specifying a transaction ID as follows:

```java
// Start a transaction with specifying a transaction ID.
DistributedTransaction transaction = transactionManager.start("<TRANSACTION_ID>");
```

{% capture notice--info %}
**Note**

> You must guarantee the uniqueness of the transaction ID in this case.

Author: Should we mention how to get the transaction ID like we do in [`two-phase-commmit-transactions.md` (commit in PR #1082)](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/f4360781940685d5c9bc86daa425fca870ae7f2f/docs/two-phase-commit-transactions.md?plain=1#L93)?

````suggestion
You must guarantee the uniqueness of the transaction ID in this case. To get the transaction ID with `getId()`, you can specify the following:

```java
tx.getId();
```
````

Reviewer: If the passed transaction ID is unique, it probably works properly regardless of whether it was obtained by calling `getID` on the existing transaction. For example, passing a randomly generated UUID would be fine as well.

But, I think it would not be a good document for users since there are few use cases with such a randomly generated ID. Also, uniqueness is an internal matter and wouldn't involve users.

IMO, we should note first what is a use-case for passing a transaction ID when starting a new transaction, then explain how to do it as we do in the section for `join` or `resume`

If there isn't a particular use case, we may delete the section.

Author: Thank you for the explanation. I think we have some other documents that include a note similar to this one.

@brfrn169 Are there any particular use cases that we should mention? Or are you OK with deleting this note? If we should delete this note, should we remove it from the other documents too?

Reviewer 2: @josh-wong We should discuss the `getId()` matter in the `Join a transaction` section:
https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/pull/1084/files#diff-d2b4776d2d9b9950fc1f58e9dd0e38550a526976d80e2232f4cb2dcfb84171b2R359

It might also be worth mentioning in the `Resume a transaction` section:
https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/pull/1084/files#diff-d2b4776d2d9b9950fc1f58e9dd0e38550a526976d80e2232f4cb2dcfb84171b2R370

And, what @feeblefakie suggested should be included in this `Begin or start a transaction` section.

Author: Got it. I've added the note about `getId()` to the `Join a transaction` and `Resume a transaction` sections, and added the part that @feeblefakie suggested to this section (`Begin or start a transaction`).

You can get the tables of a namespace as follows:

```java
// Get the tables of the namespace "ns".
Set<String> tables = admin.getNamespaceTableNames("ns");
```

### Get table metadata

You can get table metadata as follows:

```java
// Get the table metadata for "ns.tbl".
TableMetadata tableMetadata = admin.getTableMetadata("ns", "tbl");
```

### Specify operations for Coordinator tables

> Coordinator tables are used by the [Transactional API](#transactional-api) to track the statuses of transactions.

Reviewer 2: Actually, we use plural forms in APIs, such as `admin.createCoordinatorTables()`, because I anticipated that we would have multiple coordinator tables in the future, like lock tables for `EXTRA_WRITE`, in addition to the state table. For the sake of consistency, should we continue to use plural forms?

> Coordinator tables are used by the [Transactional API](#transactional-api) to track the statuses of transactions.

Author: I only saw one Coordinator table when running ScalarDB, but I assumed there were multiple after seeing APIs like `admin.createCoordinatorTables()`, which is why I left `Coordinator tables` plural.

@brfrn169 If we currently only have one type of Coordinator table, I think we should use the singular form to avoid confusion. Is that OK?

> Coordinator tables are used by the [Transactional API](#transactional-api) to track the statuses of transactions.

Reviewer 4: Oh, I didn't know the API uses plural.
Then, I think we should note it since the method name and the actual number of tables are inconsistent; otherwise, it is misleading.

One way is we call it `Coodinator table` and note that the method name is plural for future extension.
The other way is we call it `Coordinator tables` and note that we only have one table at the moment, but it can be extended.

@brfrn169 @josh-wong Thought?

> Coordinator tables are used by the [Transactional API](#transactional-api) to track the statuses of transactions.

Author: > One way is we call it `Coordinator table` and note that the method name is plural for future extension.

I'd prefer this way to reduce confusion. @brfrn169, is this way OK with you?

> Coordinator tables are used by the [Transactional API](#transactional-api) to track the statuses of transactions.

Reviewer 2: @josh-wong Yes, that's fine with me too. Thanks.

> Coordinator tables are used by the [Transactional API](#transactional-api) to track the statuses of transactions.

Author: @brfrn169 (cc: @feeblefakie) Thank you for confirming! How does the following note sound?:

```suggestion
The Coordinator table is used by the [Transactional API](#transactional-api) to track the statuses of transactions.

{% capture notice--info %}
**Note**

Although only one Coordinator table can be created, the name of the API method is plural for future extension.
{% endcapture %}

<div class="notice--info">{{ notice--info | markdownify }}</div>
```

> Coordinator tables are used by the [Transactional API](#transactional-api) to track the statuses of transactions.

Reviewer 2: @josh-wong Sounds good. Thank you!

```

After you have executed all transactional operations, you should close the `DistributedTransactionManager` instance as follows:

```java
transactionManager.close();
```

### Begin or start a transaction

Before executing transactional CRUD operations, you need to begin or start a transaction.

You can begin a transaction as follows:

```java
// Begin a transaction.
DistributedTransaction transaction = transactionManager.begin();
```

Or, you can start a transaction as follows:

```java
// Start a transaction.
DistributedTransaction transaction = transactionManager.start();
```

Alternatively, you can use the `begin` method for a transaction by specifying a transaction ID as follows:

```java
// Begin a transaction with specifying a transaction ID.
DistributedTransaction transaction = transactionManager.begin("<TRANSACTION_ID>");
```

Or, you can use the `start` method for a transaction by specifying a transaction ID as follows:

```java
// Start a transaction with specifying a transaction ID.
DistributedTransaction transaction = transactionManager.start("<TRANSACTION_ID>");
```

{% capture notice--info %}
**Note**

> Specifying a transaction ID is useful when you want to link external systems to ScalarDB. Otherwise, you should use the `start()` method.

Reviewer 2: We should mention both the `begin()` method or the `start()` method:

```suggestion
Specifying a transaction ID is useful when you want to link external systems to ScalarDB. Otherwise, you should use the `begin()` method or the `start()` method.
```

Author: Got it. Thanks!

When you specify a transaction ID, make sure you specify a unique ID (for example, UUID v4) throughout the system since ScalarDB depends on the uniqueness of transaction IDs for correctness.
{% endcapture %}

<div class="notice--info">{{ notice--info | markdownify }}</div>

### Join a transaction

Joining a transaction is particularly useful in a stateful application where a transaction spans multiple client requests. In such a scenario, the application can start a transaction during the first client request. Then, in subsequent client requests, the application can join the ongoing transaction by using the `join()` method.

You can join an ongoing transaction that has already begun by specifying the transaction ID as follows:

```java
// Join a transaction.
DistributedTransaction transaction = transactionManager.join("<TRANSACTION_ID>");
```

{% capture notice--info %}
**Note**

> You must guarantee the uniqueness of the transaction ID in this case. To get the transaction ID with `getId()`, you can specify the following:

Reviewer 2: The first sentence is unnecessary as users don’t need to care about the uniqueness of the transaction ID here; they can simply get the transaction ID with `getId()` and use it.
```suggestion
To get the transaction ID with `getId()`, you can specify the following:
```

Author: Got it. Thanks!

```java
tx.getId();
```
{% endcapture %}

<div class="notice--info">{{ notice--info | markdownify }}</div>

### Resume a transaction

Resuming a transaction is particularly useful in a stateful application where a transaction spans multiple client requests. In such a scenario, the application can start a transaction during the first client request. Then, in subsequent client requests, the application can resume the ongoing transaction by using the `resume()` method.

You can resume an ongoing transaction that you have already begun by specifying a transaction ID as follows:

```java
// Resume a transaction.
DistributedTransaction transaction = transactionManager.resume("<TRANSACTION_ID>");
```

{% capture notice--info %}
**Note**

> You must guarantee the uniqueness of the transaction ID in this case. To get the transaction ID with `getId()`, you can specify the following:

Reviewer 2: Ditto.

```suggestion
To get the transaction ID with `getId()`, you can specify the following:
```

Author: Got it. Thanks!

You can get a column value of a result by using `get<TYPE_NAME>("<COLUMN_NAME>")` methods as follows:

```java
// Get the BOOLEAN value of a column.
boolean booleanValue = result.getBoolean("<COLUMN_NAME>");

// Get the INT value of a column.
int intValue = result.getInt("<COLUMN_NAME>");

// Get the BIGINT value of a column.
long bigIntValue = result.getBigInt("<COLUMN_NAME>");

// Get the FLOAT value of a column.
float floatValue = result.getFloat("<COLUMN_NAME>");

// Get the DOUBLE value of a column.
double doubleValue = result.getDouble("<COLUMN_NAME>");

// Get the TEXT value of a column.
String textValue = result.getText("<COLUMN_NAME>");

// Get the BLOB value of a column as a `ByteBuffer`.
ByteBuffer blobValue = result.getBlob("<COLUMN_NAME>");

// Get the BLOB value of a column as a `byte` array.
byte[] blobValueAsBytes = result.getBlobAsBytes("<COLUMN_NAME>");
```

And if you need to check if a value of a column is null, you can use the `isNull("<COLUMN_NAME>")` method.

``` java
// Check if a value of a column is null
boolean isNull = result.isNull("<COLUMN_NAME>");
```

> For more details, see the Javadoc for [`Result`](https://javadoc.io/static/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/3.10.1/com/scalar/db/api/Result.html).

Author: The link in the following sentence must be updated when versions are updated and should be specific to the branch that this doc is in. For example, since this doc exists in branch `3.6`, this link should point to the latest version of the doc for ScalarDB 3.6 (https://javadoc.io/doc/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/3.6.7/index.html)

I couldn't find a way around needing to change this link, so any other user-friendly suggestions are welcome!

Reviewer 5: How about https://javadoc.io/doc/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/latest/index.html ?

Author: > How about https://javadoc.io/doc/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/latest/index.html ?

@komamitsu Thank you for your input. Initially, I wanted to avoid using a link to the latest version of the Javadoc, but maybe we can compromise by guiding the reader as follows. What do you think?

```suggestion
For more details, see the `Result` page in the [Javadoc](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/latest/index.html) of the version of ScalarDB that you're using.
```

Reviewer 5: Seems less maintenance! 💯

Author: Cool, I'll follow this method when referencing other Javadocs in other docs👍

        .limit(10)
        .build();

// Execute the `Scan` operation
List<Result> results = transaction.scan(scan);
```

{% capture notice--info %}
**Note**

You can't specify clustering-key boundaries and orderings in `Scan` by using a secondary index.
{% endcapture %}

<div class="notice--info">{{ notice--info | markdownify }}</div>

> ##### Execute a `Scan` with specifying a partition key to retrieve all the records of a table

Author: Good catch!

        .table("tbl")
        .partitionKey(partitionKey)
        .clusteringKey(clusteringKey)
        .condition(condition) // condition
        .build();

// Execute the `Delete` operation
transaction.delete(delete);
```

In addition to using the `deleteIf` condition, you can specify the `deleteIfExists` condition as follows:

```java
// Build a `deleteIfExists` condition
MutationCondition deleteIfExistsCondition = ConditionBuilder.deleteIfExists();
```

#### Mutate operation

> Mutate is an operation to execute multiple mutations (`Put` and `Delete` operations).

Author: Should the part in parentheses say "for example"?

```suggestion
Mutate is an operation to execute multiple mutations (for example, `Put` and `Delete` operations).
```

Or, are there only two operations that can be used for mutations here?

Reviewer 5: > Or, are there only two operations that can be used for mutations here?

I think so. Other operations are read operations (`Selection`) `Get` and `Scan`.

Author: > > Or, are there only two operations that can be used for mutations here?
> 
> I think so. Other operations are read operations (`Selection`) `Get` and `Scan`.

Got it. Thanks! I'll leave this part as is.

transaction.mutate(Arrays.asList(put, delete));
```

#### Default namespace for CRUD operations

> A default namespace for all CRUD operations can be set by using a property in the ScalarDB configuration. If you would like to use this setting with ScalarDB Server, you will need to configure the setting on the client-side configuration.

Author: I think we need to change this sentence for ScalarDB 3.9 and later docs since ScalarDB Server has been deprecated in ScalarDB 3.9 and later. 

In 3.9 and later docs, can we delete this sentence? Or should we reword it to mention ScalarDB Cluster instead?

Reviewer 2: We can delete this sentence. Thanks.

        .build();
```

### Commit a transaction

After executing CRUD operations, you need to commit a transaction to finish it.

You can commit a transaction as follows:

```java
// Commit a transaction.
transaction.commit();
```

### Roll back or abort a transaction

If an error occurs when executing a transaction, you can roll back or abort the transaction.

You can roll back a transaction as follows:

```java
// Roll back a transaction.
transaction.rollback();
```

Or, you can abort a transaction as follows:

```java
// Abort a transaction.
transaction.abort();
```

For details about how to handle exceptions in ScalarDB, see [How to handle exceptions](#how-to-handle-exceptions).

## How to handle exceptions

> When executing a transaction, you will also need to handle exceptions properly. If you don't handle exceptions properly, you may face anomalies or data inconsistency.

Reviewer: IMO, since anomalies or data inconsistency, are critical issues for ScalarDB users, it would be worth emphasizing those risks. (with `notice` section?)

Author: Great idea! I've added an "Attention" block since this is important for users to know. The following is how the "Attention" block will look on the docs site.

![how-to-handle-exceptions-attention-block](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/assets/23216828/dc1427c8-04f4-42d2-9a99-887da88401f2)

Some other docs have the same sentence, so I'll make the same change in those docs.

}
```

### `TransactionException` and `TransactionNotFoundException`

The `begin()` API could throw `TransactionException` or `TransactionNotFoundException`:

- If you catch `TransactionException`, this exception indicates that the transaction has failed to begin due to transient or non-transient faults. You can try retrying the transaction, but you may not be able to begin the transaction due to non-transient faults.
- If you catch `TransactionNotFoundException`, this exception indicates that the transaction has failed to begin due to transient faults. In this case, you can retry the transaction.

> 

Author: Should we mention how the `join()` API could also throw exceptions like we do in [`two-phase-commmit-transactions.md`](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/f4360781940685d5c9bc86daa425fca870ae7f2f/docs/two-phase-commit-transactions.md?plain=1#L648C14-L648C14)?

> **Note**
> 
> **Reference:** The commit above is from PR #1082.

```suggestion

The `join()` API could also throw `TransactionException` or `TransactionNotFoundException`. You can handle these exceptions in the same way that you handle the exceptions for the `begin()` API.

```

Reviewer 2: Actually, `DistributedTransactionManager.join()` only throws `TransactionNotFoundException`. Can you please mention this?

Author: Understood. 

I've added a sentence about that below this bulleted list. I've also updated the sentence in [two-phase-commit-transactions.md](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/32a6191ff24f391175cf78217afc967086f80558/docs/two-phase-commit-transactions.md?plain=1#L654). PTAL!

- If you catch `CommitConflictException`, this exception indicates that committing the transaction has failed due to transient faults (for example, a conflict error). In this case, you can retry the transaction from the beginning.
- If you catch `UnknownTransactionStatusException`, this exception indicates that the status of the transaction, whether it was successful or not, is unknown. In this case, you need to check if the transaction is committed successfully and retry the transaction if it has failed.

How to identify a transaction status is delegated to users. You may want to create a transaction status table and update it transactionally with other application data so that you can get the status of a transaction from the status table.

### Notes about some exceptions

Although not illustrated in the example code, the `resume()` API could also throw `TransactionNotFoundException`. This exception indicates that the transaction associated with the specified ID was not found and/or the transaction might have expired. In either case, you can retry the transaction from the beginning since the cause of this exception is basically transient.

> In the sample code, for `UnknownTransactionStatusException`, the transaction is not retried because the cause of the exception is non-transient. For other exceptions, the transaction is retried because the cause of the exception is transient or non-transient. If the cause of the exception is transient, the transaction may succeed if you retry it. However, if the cause of the exception is non-transient, the transaction may still fail even if you retry it. In such a case, you will exhaust the number of retries.

Reviewer 5: The reason why `UnknownTransactionStatusException` shouldn't be retried without checking if the transaction succeeded is to avoid potential duplicated operations (e.g., multiple records creation), IIUC. So, this description sounds a bit weird to me.  @brfrn169 What do you think?

Reviewer 2: > The reason why UnknownTransactionStatusException shouldn't be retried without checking if the transaction succeeded by the application is to avoid potential duplicated operations (e.g., multiple records creation), IIUC.

This is correct.

However, I'm actually not sure if "non-transient" is the most appropriate term to use in this context.

@josh-wong What do you think?

Author: @komamitsu Thank you for the explanation!

@brfrn169 Thank you for confirming! I agree, I don't think "non-transient" is the right word here. How about if we change the first sentence as follows?:

```suggestion
In the sample code, for `UnknownTransactionStatusException`, the transaction is not retried because the application must check if the transaction was successful to avoid potential duplicate operations. For other exceptions, the transaction is retried because the cause of the exception is transient or non-transient. If the cause of the exception is transient, the transaction may succeed if you retry it. However, if the cause of the exception is non-transient, the transaction will still fail even if you retry it. In such a case, you will exhaust the number of retries.
```

Reviewer 2: @josh-wong Sounds good. Thanks!

Reviewer 2: @josh-wong Can you please apply the same change to the Two-phase commit transaction document?
https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/pull/1082/files#diff-2677f880f1a9e512f31cce8e12950863ddffd4be49408d310d72d4d73e6122b9R697

Author: Done!

**Ref:** https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/334069fe6d64dfb5f4df4aa33ea7de94b28d8383/docs/two-phase-commit-transactions.md?plain=1#L697C4-L697C4

### Notes about some exceptions

Although not illustrated in the example code, the `resume()` API could also throw `TransactionNotFoundException`. This exception indicates that the transaction associated with the specified ID was not found and/or the transaction might have expired. In either case, you can retry the transaction from the beginning since the cause of this exception is basically transient.

In the sample code, for `UnknownTransactionStatusException`, the transaction is not retried because the cause of the exception is non-transient. For other exceptions, the transaction is retried because the cause of the exception is transient or non-transient. If the cause of the exception is transient, the transaction may succeed if you retry it. However, if the cause of the exception is non-transient, the transaction will still fail even if you retry it. In such a case, you will exhaust the number of retries.

{% capture notice--info %}
**Note**

> If you begin a transaction by specifying a transaction ID, you must use a different ID when you retry the transaction.

Reviewer 4: I think we should probably say this in the `begin` section (as I commented) instead of here.

Author: Got it. I've removed that sentence from this note since I've added it to the `Begin or start a transaction` section.
